Hello and welcome back to the course on artificial intelligence.
All right so I hope you're enjoying the tutorial so far we're nearly done with the intuition you soon
very soon get to the practical side of things we've just got a few little things that we need to cover.
All right so previously we talked about how we add neural networks into this whole equation of CULE
learning and take ular into the next step and turn it into deep learning.
And today we're going to add a an extra important feature which will be coding in the practical side
of things so headline and I decided that it's important for us to cover it often in the intuition side
of things so that you're more prepared for it when it comes in the coding side of things.
So as we discussed we've got the network there there's two parts that happen.
First of all it's the learning so the network actually learns with every new state it.
It slowly updates its waits to get better and better and better at dealing with this environment.
And then there is the acting inside the state so after the q values have been counted in the state then
once you selected.
So today we're still going to talk about the learning part we're going to come up with a interesting
feature that's going to help in undergrad to come up with this feature ourselves but we'll talk about
a feature that is very important for a deep cool learning and that feature is called experience replay.
All right.
So here is our network so we've just copied it over here.
We've got that lost that is Calcott at the bottom is back propagator through network.
And let's have a look at an example of what happens to understand the problem that we're dealing with
a bit better.
So here is an example actually from the scores.
This is a screen shot shot exactly from this course this is what you will be programming.
This is a self-driving car that is driving through this through along this road and it has to learn
how to navigate this road.
And so what it is as we discussed previously What is this in this state.
And of course the state is not going to be x1 x2 Lundell just describe it in a lot more detail what
the state is it is going to be a couple of parameters which relate to the angle of the car and some
relative parameters what the sensors are reading and so on.
So there's going to be more parameters than that to describe the state.
But nevertheless it's going to be a vector of values going to go through a neural network and then on
the output you're going to have some ACU values.
Again there'll be a difference depending on the environment.
They can be a different number of actions possible actions.
But we're just going to for simplicity sake leave it at for just for us to be able to understand better
what's going on here.
So in this case what is the question is so far what is this.
This inputs into this neural network or more specifically how often do we trigger this neural net.
How often does this neural net growth.
Well every time the car ends up in a new state so the car makes a move it ends up in a new state and
then everything go.
All that data all that information from about the state goes through the network give Alice the calculated
errors.
This error is calculated based on what we discussed in previous tutorials.
This is back propagated through and their weights are updated.
Then the car selects which action was to take makes that move ends up in a new state in the new state.
Everything starts over again.
And so basically this happens every time the car is in and you said well have a look at this example.
I specifically took the screen shot because it looks it's very well illustrates the problem that is
addressed through experience replay and expense replays not just something that we use in this course
or in this specific problem.
It is something that you will see used throughout.
On and on and over and over again in artificial intelligence algorithms because it is so powerful and
it's so important.
So look at this car this car in this problem or in this environment it's goal is come from go from here
to here and back.
Its goal is to navigate its way here here without crossing these walls which are made of sand.
And so the car started over here it went down and like its reward is based on you know how close it
is to start.
So the car went from here it went down and kept going like this like this like this like this or along
this wall along the seawall.
And what is it going to do next is going to turn is going to keep going.
Well what we wanted to do is keep going here.
But let's think about it for a second.
Once it got to this wall every single time it moves forward it moves forward.
It moves forward it moves forward moves forward moves forward moves forward and so on it moves forward.
So there might be like depending on the structure environment could be like a hundred moves here or
50 moves here.
It just keeps moving forward forward forward forward for it and nothing changes.
Not really changes it gets way further way from this started closer to this story.
That's lovely.
But in terms of the surrounding environment not many things are changing it's still that same wall.
If you are sitting in the car you probably seen the situation when you're driving in the whatever you're
seeing is like the environment is so monotonous that you're just seeing kind of the same thing is just
passing by.
But like I imagine you're driving through a desert and you're just seeing the same thing it's the same
sound it's the same sound nothing is happening.
Nothing is changing.
And so based but every single time we're putting that state that new state into here.
Yes of course something might be changing for us as you're driving the car and your GPS is showing you're
closer to your destination.
So one of these inputs is strange but a lot of these other inputs the sensors for instance which are
on the car they're not changing and therefore as you're driving slow in this day to put in put the inputs
into your own into here here here here here here here and here here all the time the inputs are pretty
much the same.
And so if you keep inputting the same inputs same values in vector or very similar vectors into your
network because there is no variety.
The car will learn very well.
One thing you'll learn very well how to drive along this wall which is on its right and so that's how
the network will update and it will get rewarded will slowly start getting rewarded for driving so well
it will be like.
OK so up from here I'll be learning all I'm doing so good I'm doing better I'm doing it better.
It all.
It will have this this false perception that it's actually doing very well even though it only learns
how to drive along as well as other neural networks will become very adapted to driving along this well
and then all of a sudden there's this curve and the car doesn't know what to do.
And it completely doesn't fit in with this neural network.
And even if it does it just somehow let's hypothetically say passes a spot and then it ends up on this
wall.
Same thing is going to happen is going to drive from here here here.
OK now the neural network is restructuring itself to adapt to this wall and then bam this thing happens.
And then even if somehow it gets passed that it will drive past this thing and then same thing along
these lines.
So basically this is a very vivid example of the problem that we are what we have is that because the
way we're using the neural net updating it every single state once we have lots of consecutive stuff
they don't even have to be the same but there is in environments that's normal that is consecutive states
are somehow correlated or are somehow interdependent and we don't want that interdependency to bias
our network.
We don't want the car to just learn how to drive along like a straight line or a long curved line or
like anything that you think that you can think of in in life where an agent would be Navigant environment
where we can think of correlated or interdependent states that come after another that can really mess
up your neural network.
If you just going to let the agent learn from that.
And that's where experience replay comes in.
What what happens in experience replay is these experiences so these states that it's in one two three
however many 50 states here in neuro they don't get put through the network right away.
They are actually saved into memory of the agent.
And so for instance it save all these and saves all these and some at some point once it reaches a certain
threshold which you'll be able to code and Atlanta will show you how to do that.
Once it reaches a certain threshold then the agent decides for itself OK it's time to learn.
I have I have this batch of experiences that I have I'm not going to learn from that and so randomly
selects a uniformly distribution and uniformity is key is important here because that's something we'll
we'll talk about on the next slide.
We'll book will mention that.
But it takes a uniformly distributed sample.
So basically all experiences are considered to be equal.
It takes a uniformly distributed sample from that batch of experiences that it has and then it goes
through them and learns from them so it doesn't take all the experience or just takes it uniformly distribute
samples it might take couple of from here a couple from here a couple from here and it and each experience
is characterized by the state it was in the action that it took the state it ended up in and the reward
it it achieved through that action in that specific state so four elements in each experience state
one action state two and reward and so it takes all those experiences and then it passes them through
the network and it learns.
And that way it it breaks the pattern of that bias which comes from the sequential nature of the experience
as if you were to put them through the network one after the other.
So that's the main focus of experience we play.
That's that's what the problem and address is and another benefit of experience replay is that sometimes
in an environment like this you might have very valuable rare experiences.
So for instance I don't know let's say let's look at this corner right this is this is the right corner.
Right.
And a very sharp one is sharp.
So it'll be coming from here assuming it's going to be hugging this corner.
So having you sharp right corners do we have in this in this whole we're going to have one right corner
here and one right corner here.
Right so when it's coming this way that's the right corner.
And then when it's going back it's a sharp right corner here.
So and this one's not sharp this way in the shop so there's only one opportunity in the whole environment
to learn from a sharp right corner.
And that's a very important experience because it might get really good at driving along straight lines
get really good at doing like soft corners like that like that but.
And then it'll keep messing up this sharp right corner simply because simply because it doesn't have
that much opportunity to learn from it and so therefore it will learn everything else very quickly but
it'll take a long time to learn the right course.
It's a very simplified example is a very simplified explanation but it illustrates the concept that
sometimes they're are rare experiences which are which can be valuable.
And if you're just doing a simple neural network where you're putting in your values here and you know
they're going through and you know like even if you forget about that problem of the sequential nature
of experiences and how they can be interdependent and all correlated Thimphu even forget about that
for a second.
What happens is once you put an experience in it goes through networks up data then you instantly forget
but forget about that experience.
You move on to the next one.
That's just how the neural network works.
Then you move onto the next state the next step the next step the next experience X experience that
experience and so on.
So this right corner as soon as it goes through a network is gone and you don't have any memory of that
valuable experience.
Whereas we've experienced replay because you're putting these experiences into batches you can organize
your bash as a rolling window so for instance you could have like 100 batches So hundred experiences
in your batch so when it's coming back from here it's as soon as it has this recorded this experience
in its batch.
Then like at some point it runs its takes a uniform distribution from its batch of experiences and then
there's a rolling window so it forgets these experiences but then it keeps these experiences.
And then again it learns from once it's here it learns from this batch and then once it's here it forgets
all the way up to here.
But then it has a batch of experiences like that so therefore not learn from these experiences.
And that way what you are getting is that this right hand corner might come up several times in its
learning process because it was in that batch when the batch was like this around there than there was
in the batch here in about here so it came up in several batches because the abash might be updated
as a rolling window of experience.
So the older experiences get kicked out the newer experiences are added and then again older experience
get it.
So and experience it stays in the batch for quite some time and the car or agent can learn from that
experience several times.
So that's another advantage of experience replay.
And of course the final advantage is experience replay gives you an opportunity to learn from more experiences
than if you're just learning for one at a time because you have that batch and therefore And it's a
rolling window and therefore even if your environment is limited to experience your experience replay
approach can help you learn faster.
And instead of just redoing there are many many many times you can learn fast because you don't have
to redo it.
You have those experiences saved.
So those are the main advantages of experience.
Let's recap on that we've got the.
We're breaking that pattern over independence and correlation of sequential experiences we save rare
experiences which might be important therefore we can learn from them more often and we can learn in
environments we can learn Fosler environments which are experience.
We have a shortage of experiences which don't have that many experiences that the agent goes through
and still we can be able to learn that.
So that is what experience replays all about.
If you'd like to read a bit more than this.
There's an interesting article published by deep mind in 2016 is called prioritized experience replay
and it talks about why.
Why are we using a uniform distribution to select our experiences from the experience Bachche why don't
we find a better way to select our experiences and prioritize some of the experiences which we feel
that are important.
It's quite an interesting thing though in this case you will be able to not only reinforce or not only
reinforce your knowledge on experience replay but you will actually be able to move with the cutting
edge of technology.
So this is 2016 and published by deep minds.
It's a very recent very powerful paper so you'll be able to actually explore the limits or explore even
further this algorithm and take it to the next level.
So I'll leave it up to you to find out why and how we can change the uniform to a different approach
to experience replay from this paper if you'd like.
And I hope you enjoy this.
Tauriel and now we know what experience really is and we can confidently use it in our practical circles
and I look for see you next time.
Until then enjoy AI.